
BETA 7 Changelog (7th Oct 2019 - 1st Jan 2021)

CODE & GENERAL GAME

options Ini settings changed. 

Improved AI code.

Improved AI thrown attacks.

Only allow assigning soldier to vehicle from squad, to prevent possible bugs.

AI soldiers will try to use sidearm if not enough APs for main weapon.
Improved code to avoid deep water.
AI soldiers always consider shooting at opponents they cannot see currently.
When AI soldier is in deep water, he will try to move to closest known opponent on land.

Added experimental AI path tweaks: avoid gas, water, corpses, light at night.
First decay light effects and then decay smoke effects, because fire can create light.
Dynamic creation of light effects for fire and signal smoke.
Fixed/improved code to decay light effects so that ubDuration works correctly.

Inventory button to change firemodes was greyed out for guns with one base fire mode (by Flugente)

Improved movement noise calculation.

Various fixes by merc05.

Switch scope mode to default for suppressed soldier if he uses alt weapon holding.

Reorganized voice taunts.Every type can have many variants 01..XX

Lowered cover effect for camo and stealth.
Removed cover effect from stance to prevent enemy disappearing as flagged previously.

Uploaded grenade pin sounds.

[F] key should correctly show CTH for different types of attacks. (by Wanne)

Changed ini default game style to realistic.

Interrogate prisoner: don't change reinforcement pool when unlimited reinforcements enabled.
EvaluateQueenSituation: allow recruiting when pool size drops below QUEEN_POOL_INCREMENT_PER_DIFFICULTY_LEVEL, this should result in more stable strategic AI behavior.
(by Silversurfer)

Added JA1/DG merc available emails that were missing. 

Updated EmailMercAvailable.xml to include a message from Simon Grandee.

New option TOTAL_DESTRUCTION: guns can damage structures.
Switch from alt weapon holding when changing stance in realtime.

Added addiction to coca leaves to backgrounds
Added facility type Shady Neighbourhood to urban San Mona sectors
Shady Neighbourhood and Kingpin Drug Lab trigger coca addiction

Allow hostilities inside the same team (e.g. civ team) if members are on different sides.
CIA and TracOps civ groups switch to different sides when turning hostile after detecting Dwight.

Fix: NPC go to grid script properly interrupts cowering.
Loudhailer logic modified - unlimited loudhailer quotes can be triggered.
Fix: Stanley's loudhailer speech activated only if Dwight is in the same sector

Less use of Vanilla loading screens.

Fix: flyboys would instantly crash heli instead of 3 hits allowed
Fix: crashing heli would trigger redundant message about removing pilot
Fix: current heli pilot should be talking instead of Skyrider for out of range plan
Fix: repairs should cause pilot to be kicked out from the  together with passengers
added Waldo face and RPCFacesSmall entry, so repair feature will work correctly
added one quote to Jerry Melo regarding out of range heli plan

Fix: RPCs that would be later available on MERC would charge their salaries even before

Fix: climbing related AI deadlocks

Increased max possible soldiers stored for friendly fire check to 256.
Friendly fire chance code also checks for soldiers of the same side and optionally neutral civilians.
CalcCoverValue: check friendly fire chance for each position, penalize position if friendly fire chance is high

CalcBestShot tweaks

Suppression improvements

CalcMorale: improved code to make enemy slightly more aggressive.

Red AI: Improved suppression fire code
Black AI: improved attack code

AI climbing improvements.

Women get badguy battlesound sets 6-8.

Fix: Victory outro crowd spawn is limited by victory sector set in mod settings instead of Queen's profile position.

AI fix: initialize pSoldier->bWeaponMode = WM_NORMAL before executing AI code as FindAmmoToReload may crash if bWeaponMode is incorrect.
FindAmmoToReload: added assert messages to indicate that searching attached weapon failed.

Fix: Freeze when ending turn with the squad list open and inventory auto-collapse enabled.

Improved EDB code: do not show PercentTargetTrackingSpeed and PercentDropCompensation when using OCTH.

SoldierAI: exclude civilians.

Fix: Incorrect income calculation for non-oil rig NPC foremen

Increased duration for signal shell/flare to prevent situation when red smoke ends before the artillery strike arrives, especially with RADIO_OPERATOR_ARTILLERY_DISTRIBUTED_OVER_TURNS option enabled.
Set TAUNT_ALERT_CHANCE = 100 so that enemy always play taunt when raising alert for the first time.

Increased AP to start spotting to 40.

Set all gas explosives of the same type use the same ubDamage/ubStunDamage as the game always uses damage values from the first gas grenade of that type.
Reduced ubStunDamage for tear gas to 25.
All tripwire map items, tripwire roll use the same explosive type <ubClassIndex>86</ubClassIndex>.

Fix/workaround: set Jerry as civvie instead of rebel to avoid bloodcat related crash on I16 retreat.

Set COVER_SYSTEM_STEALTH_EFFECTIVENESS = 50, COVER_SYSTEM_CAMOUFLAGE_EFFECTIVENESS = 50.

Fix: Snitch assignments were not properly taking mercs out of vehicles

Ja2_Vengeance.exe Build 1.1.2021




CHARACTERS

Some minor improvements to Deadly Games mercs speech and more accurate EDT's

Some minor improvements to Facegear graphics for some mercs

New merc Jose "Calavera" Aguilar added to A.I.M. roster (speech files by Vritran)
New merc "Exec" added to A.I.M. roster (speech files by Vritran, graphics by Anv)
New merc "Ash" added to M.E.R.C. roster (speech files by Vritran, graphics by Anv)
New merc Susan "Hustler" Lysette added to M.E.R.C. roster (speech files by Vritran)
New merc Jack Cygan added to A.I.M. roster (speech files by Vritran, graphics by Anv)
New merc "Eskimo" added to M.E.R.C. roster (speech files by Vritran, graphics by Anv)
New merc "Sioux" added to M.E.R.C. roster (speech files by Vritran, graphics by Anv)
New merc Roger 'Disco' Rilley to M.E.R.C. roster (speech files by Vritran, graphics by Anv)

Added missing Bobby Ray shipment speech for Sam Garver.

Better quality Vinny battlesounds added.

Reduced Eagle's Life value, like he was in original Vengeance to reflect he's been injured.

T-Rex no longer in game, replaced with new wanted Terrorist.

Previous IMP's have missing facegear graphics now.

Shuffled dismiss speech around for Arsenal that was incorrectly referring to Miguel.

Shuffled some of Leech's contract speeches to make more sense.

Skyrider PCM speech updates, better context.

Corrected Frazzlers dismiss speech, uses more fitting line saying farewell.

Calvin Barkmore PCM update.

Added Jerry Melo camo faces.

Fixed incorrect IMP face for Reuban's desert camo.



ITEMS & TRADING

Typos fixed and descriptions improved for a number of items and weapons.

Minor fixes and offset adjustments to big item graphics.

Added more attachments to the OIV grenade panel so you can carry a more diverse (and newer) set of grenades that were previously ommitted.

Added merges so AK conversion kit will work with SKS and SKS PU rifles.

Added PU scope as a secondary item when you merge a barrel kit with SKS PU.

Some bunkers have new high powered armour items added to maps.

Reduced cost of M16A2 M203 combo that seem over inflated.

Created new Walther P22 graphic.

New, improved Master Key graphic.

Added detonators to Bobby Rays inventory.

Made AVS-36 now has full auto specifications.

Added .30 car 15 mags to Tony's inventory. 

Tony now buys and sells BAR 20 mags.

Adjusted price on grey shirt.

Fixed incorrect bAccuracy for Winchester 94 Trapper.

Added possibility to attach sniper suppressor and flash suppressor to Molot Vepr.

Removed vision bonus from Custom MAC-10.

Increased stun damage for regular type explosives.

ALICE pack can now stow a V40 mini grenade.


INVENTORY & STARTING GEAR

Removal of more regeneration boosters in medic starting kits also added more smoke grenades and canteens.

Added radio battery to Bob's RTO starting gear should he need it.

Tweaks to Vinny's Thief and Premium starting gear kits.

Adjusted ammo strings xml that didn't have elements for ids 50-59 and 60-100 and where some ammo calibres were not showing in Bobby Rays.





MAPS

A number of map tweaks includes simplifications of roads, clearer borders and item fixes.

Removal of stray sandbag tiles left in some maps.

Some facility descriptions improved or corrected.

Added missing shooting range facility to H8.

Fixed a number of leaking building corners including those at Alma where enemies could shoot through.

Added shooting range facility to H14 Alma.

Added sandbags to oil rig tileset that were missed. Maps adjusted to suit.

Slight changes to Prison Island, some simplification, trying to clear strange roof behaviour in house by gate.

Fixed Western insertion point in 04 that was trapping mercs on arrival in fenced off area. Replaced possible leak in NE mall wall.

Fixed some leaking walls in M3, minor visual room and map changes.

More P13 Palace tweaks, less entrances, larger turrets, less leak in roof sandbags. 

Added missing Sandbag.JSD to Drassen Mine tileset.




ADDITIONS

New loading screens.

More Male hits and dies added for villagers and civs.

More Militia Battlesounds and taunts added.

More Militia Elite Battlesounds and taunts added.

More Enemy Admim, Regular and Elite Battlesounds and taunts added.

More Female warden battlesounds and taunts added.

More CIA Spook battlesounds and taunts added.

Pacos now has battlesounds.

New IMP speech packs replace Russian voices previously available. (by Vritran)

Players can now have a maximum of 15 IMPS (up to 8 males and/or 7 females)

Added 4 Female IMP Voices from JA2 v1.13 trunk (Wizardry 8 Voicesets)

Added 3rd Kingpin goon speech taunt pack.

Added new H&B goon speech taunt packs.

More 'Weekly Leaks' intel added.

Added ability to use separate image per each vehicle type in old inventory system

Added new Pick Up truck Inventory figure graphic.

Added Vehicle inventory figure Humvee specifically for Pick up truck.

Added Inventory figure Icecreamtruck specifically for Cobra's military Jeep. Placeholder duplicate for now. 

Added new ingame option: "New Vision Mode" 

Added DEFEAT_MODE option.

Added new wrecked bus tile.

Updated credits.












